We're gonna go over unit testing, and
so unit testing sucks in JavaScript.
As you know,
you have to create these folders,
then you have to download libraries,
and then you have to knit the config.
And if the config doesn't play well
with your build system, you cry and
configuration for a couple hours.
And eventually, you get a unit
testing system up and running and
it's fantastic, right?
Go has the exact same thing except for
its built in, right?
So it has a testing already built in.
The testing kind of sucks.
We are gonna only rely on
ghost testing library today.
Cuz I'm just gonna use the most canonical
items cuz there are assertion libraries
forego that do make testing a lot nicer.
So I can just like assert on
stuff as opposed to doing this.
Where I'm like, hey,
I expected it to equal 7.
If it doesn't have to explicitly say
the error right here, it doesn't give you
that nice printing out and you kinda
have to individually test things.
Which kinda sucks, right?
If that's not exactly what you want.
Rust of course, is significantly better.
You test in the file.
So you don't create a separate file for
testing.
And you do have to be careful about
one thing with rust which is you gain
the ability to test private interfaces,
right?
And so that is always really
painful when you can,
the more you test private
interfaces what happens?
Your code changes,
your testing underneath the hood.
And then now when you make
a change to your code,
you have like way more stuff you need
to change because more tests break.
So rust though, I think is one of the
better ones for testing also provides more
ability to make what I'd say is difficult
decisions [LAUGH] with your life.
So be careful about that.
Rust test of code
effectively looks like this.
This is called a procedural macro or
proc macro.
And it does something
magical to your code.
You don't know what it does,
doesn't matter what it does.
And then you just say hey,
this thing is the test.
Does something magical to your code.
Doesn't matter.
If you can just say assert equal, and
it will break if it doesn't equal.
There's even a plugin or library you can
download that overrides assert equals,
and it will do like the full
just style print out.
If you have two objects, it'll say which
properties aren't matching each other and
you'll get that red, green and all that.
So very, very fantastic.
I would again, we're not gonna
use any additional libraries.
We're just gonna use what is available.
TypeScript being the only one that you
can't do that with because there is no
testing available with TypeScript.
And you're going to forget
everything I said, right?
I just said a whole bunch of stuff.
We're all gonna forget it.
So let's start building stuff, right?